# Rat Data Analysis Overview

## Overview

For our analysis, we selected four phenotypes to study: fasting glucose, BMI with tail, and body weight traits. These phenotypes were chosen for their relevance to obesity-related research and the availability of comprehensive data.

## Phenotype Data

### Download
The phenotype data can be downloaded from the following link:
[Phenotype Download Link](https://library.ucsd.edu/dc/object/bb9156620z/_2_1.zip)

### Description
We utilized the pre-processed phenotype data, which is available in the file `Obesity_normalized_phenotypes_n3173.csv`. 

#### Processing Pipeline
Residuals (processed phenotype data) were generated by quantile normalizing each trait within each research site separately for males and females, akin to using sex as a covariate. Other relevant covariates (including age and dissector) were identified for each trait. Covariate effects were regressed out if they were significant and explained more than 2% of the variance.

Residuals were quantile normalized again, after which the data for each sex and site was pooled for further analysis. We used these normalized phenotypes for our analysis. 

## Genotype Data

### Download
The LD-pruned set of genotype data is available here:
[Genotype Data Download Link](https://library.ucsd.edu/dc/object/bb9156620z/_3_1.zip/download)

We used the PLINK binary fileset available in `LD_pruned_PLINK.zip`.

### LD Pruning
The genotype data was LD-pruned using PLINK v1.90 with the command:

```plaintext
--indep-pairwise 50 5 0.95

```

Here, `50` represents the number of variants in a window, `5` is the number of variants to shift the window sideways each step, and `0.95` is the r^2 threshold for trimming SNPs.
